README.md, before:

# Fen
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fen-land/deno-fen.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fen-land/deno-fen)
![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/fen-land/deno-fen.svg?color=%2366ccff&label=version)
![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/denoland/deno_std.svg?label=deno_std)

> A simple web framework for deno.
>
> Welcome to join us or give your advice

![Logo](./logo.png)

- [How 2 use](#how-2-use)
- [About Context](#about-context)
- [About Process](#about-process)
  - [Session Process](#session-process)
- [About Tool](#about-tool)
  - [Router](#router)
  - [Logger](#logger)
  - [Static](#static)
- [Update Log](#update-log)

## How 2 use

First you should install [deno](https://deno.land):

```bash
curl -fsSL https://deno.land/x/install/install.sh | sh
```

Although we add it to https://deno.land/x/fen, but it doesn't seem to work.

We will try to figure it out later

Test if it's work:

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master/server.ts";

const s = new Server();

s.port = 1882;

s.start();
```

Add your own controller

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fen-land/deno-fen/v0.7.1/server.ts";

const s = new Server();

// pls keep in mind that you may add an async function as controller
s.setController(async context => {
  context.body = "It's alive!";
});

s.port = 1882;

s.start();
```

Then roll with the deno!

```bash
deno ${yours}.ts
⚠️  Deno requests network access to "listen". Grant? [yN] y
```

## About Context

Context is the only way now to pass data and get data.

```
{
 // ---- All from ServerRequest
  url,
  method,
  proto,
  headers,
  conn,
  reader,
  writer,
 // ----
  request,
  path, // url path without params and ip:port
  params, // Map<string, string>  params in url
  data: new Map<string, any>(),
  body: "",// respond body
  status: 200,// respond status
  config: {
    disableRespond: false, // disable fen's respond
    disableBodyEncode: false,
    disableContentType: false,
    mimeType: "text/plain",
    charset: "utf-8"
  },
  reqBody, // request body(after try to decode)
  originBody, // request body
  logger, // logger
  throw(code, message) // throw an http error
};
```

## About Process

process is a series of process between controller, you can develop your own process;

### Session Process

It's a simple session for Fen, using session(a map) to store data.

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fen-land/deno-fen/v0.7.1/server.ts";
import { Session } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fen-land/deno-fen/v0.7.1/process/session.ts";

const session = new Session();

const s = new Server();

s.addProcess(session.process);

s.port = 1882;

s.setController(async context => {
  const session = context.data.get("session");
  let c = session.get("c") || 1;

  if (context.path === "/") {
    session.set("c", c + 1);
  }

  context.body = `It\'s alive for path '/' ${c} times in this browser!`;
});

s.start();
```

## About Tool

Tool is a series function that help to do sth with controller

As you can see in `Session`

```typescript
const cookie = cookieReader(cookie);
setCookie.append("set-cookie", cookie2String(cookie));
```

### Router

In fen we provide a way to arrange route,
router tool.

This example shows many way to use router

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//server.ts";
import { Router } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//tool/router.ts";

const s = new Server();

s.port = 1882;

s.logger.changeLevel("ALL");

let mergeRouter = new Router("merge");

mergeRouter
  .get(
    "/",
    async context =>
      (context.body = `${context.data.get("router").name} in ${
        context.data.get("router").route
      }`)
  )
  .post(
    "/",
    async context =>
      (context.body = `POST ${context.data.get("router").name} in ${
        context.data.get("router").route
      }`)
  )
  .get(
    "me",
    async context =>
      (context.body = `${context.data.get("router").name} in ${
        context.data.get("router").route
      }`)
  );

let router = new Router();

router
  .get("/:id", async context => {
    context.body = `we have ${JSON.stringify(
      context.data.get("router").params
    )} in ${context.data.get("router").route}`;
  })
  .get("/:id/:name", async context => {
    context.body = `we have ${JSON.stringify(
      context.data.get("router").params
    )} in ${context.data.get("router").route}`;
  })
  .get("/hello/:name", async context => {
    context.body = `hello ${context.data.get("router").params.name} in ${
      context.data.get("router").route
    }`;
  })
  .use({
    "/use": {
      get: async context =>
        (context.body = `use in ${context.data.get("router").route}`)
    }
  })
  .merge("/merge", mergeRouter);
s.setController(router.controller);

s.start();
```

`Router` now support these method:

```
    use(route: IRoute) // a way to add route
    // IRoute just like:
    // {[path]: {[method]: async function controller(cxt)}}
    merge(route: string, router:Router) // merge other router by add prefix route
    get
    post
    head
    put
    delete
    connect
    options
    trace
```

### Logger

In fen we provide a way to log info through logger we provide.
Logger now have 5 level for log to help you develop.
You can access them on `context.logger` .

```
    'ALL':  Display all log,
    'TRACE': trace some detail,
    'DEBUG': log to help you debug,
    'INFO': normal info for you,
    'WARN': simple warn,
    'ERROR': error that won't stop the server,
    'FATAL': once it happened, server won't work,
    'OFF': Disable all log
```

You can change log level by `changeLevel`, logger also can access on `Server` instance

```typescript
logger.changeLevel("ALL");
```

### Static

We provide a tool for static file,
it will generate a controller for server(or router).

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//server.ts";
import { staticProcess } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//tool/static.ts";

const s = new Server();

s.port = 1882;
// it will respond file from the path where deno run
s.setController(staticProcess({ root: "" }));

s.start();
```

and here is some of the option you can fit in

```
{
    root: root path of the file,
    maxAge: (s),
    allowHidden: allow access hidden file,
    index: access if no file name provide 'index.html',
    immutable: immutable in cache-control,
    pathRender: (path) => afterpath, if you want do sth. with path
};
```

## Update Log

- v0.7.1 Mar 11, 2019
  - 💡 New path structure for import
  - 💄 Now all process and tool pass data through context.data
  - 🎉 Using deno v0.3.2 now
  - 🎉 Add a bunch of test now
  - ⚠️ don't using v0.7.0, there some issue with this version
- v0.6.0 Mar 7, 2019
  - 💡 New http error handler
  - 💄 Decompose tool from each other, now tool only depend on Server context
- v0.5.3 Mar 5, 2019
  - 💡 New router tool for controller
  - 💄 Add path render in static
  - 🎉 Using deno v0.3.0 now
- v0.5.1 Mar 4, 2019
  - 💡 New static tool for file controller
- v0.5.0 Mar 4, 2019
  - 💡 New Logger for properly info presentation
- v0.4.0 Mar 1, 2019
  - 💡 Body is now auto encode
  - 💡 Add config to server
  - 💄 New content in context
  - 🎉 A bunch of example now is available
- v0.3.0 Feb 28, 2019
  - 💄 Respond now is auto
- v0.2.0 Feb 27, 2019
  - 💡 First Tool And Process
- v0.1.0 Feb 26, 2019
  - 💡 Basic Server

Commit message:

feat: update using deno 0.3.3 deno_std 0.3.2

README.md, after:

# Fen
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/fen-land/deno-fen.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/fen-land/deno-fen)
![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/fen-land/deno-fen.svg?color=%2366ccff&label=version)
![GitHub tag (latest SemVer)](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/denoland/deno_std.svg?label=deno_std)

> A simple web framework for deno.
>
> Welcome to join us or give your advice

Using deno 0.3.2 for v0.7.1
Using deno 0.3.3 for v0.7.2

![Logo](./logo.png)

- [How 2 use](#how-2-use)
- [About Context](#about-context)
- [About Process](#about-process)
  - [Session Process](#session-process)
- [About Tool](#about-tool)
  - [Router](#router)
  - [Logger](#logger)
  - [Static](#static)
- [Update Log](#update-log)

## How 2 use

First you should install [deno](https://deno.land):

```bash
curl -fsSL https://deno.land/x/install/install.sh | sh
```

Although we add it to https://deno.land/x/fen, but it doesn't seem to work.

We will try to figure it out later

Test if it's work:

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master/server.ts";

const s = new Server();

s.port = 1882;

s.start();
```

Add your own controller

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fen-land/deno-fen/v0.7.2/server.ts";

const s = new Server();

// pls keep in mind that you may add an async function as controller
s.setController(async context => {
  context.body = "It's alive!";
});

s.port = 1882;

s.start();
```

Then roll with the deno!

```bash
deno ${yours}.ts -A
```

## About Context

Context is the only way now to pass data and get data.

```
{
 // ---- All from ServerRequest
  url,
  method,
  proto,
  headers,
  conn,
  reader,
  writer,
 // ----
  request,
  path, // url path without params and ip:port
  params, // Map<string, string>  params in url
  data: new Map<string, any>(),
  body: "",// respond body
  status: 200,// respond status
  config: {
    disableRespond: false, // disable fen's respond
    disableBodyEncode: false,
    disableContentType: false,
    mimeType: "text/plain",
    charset: "utf-8"
  },
  reqBody, // request body(after try to decode)
  originBody, // request body
  logger, // logger
  throw(code, message) // throw an http error
};
```

## About Process

process is a series of process between controller, you can develop your own process;

### Session Process

It's a simple session for Fen, using session(a map) to store data.

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fen-land/deno-fen/v0.7.2/server.ts";
import { Session } from "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fen-land/deno-fen/v0.7.2/process/session.ts";

const session = new Session();

const s = new Server();

s.addProcess(session.process);

s.port = 1882;

s.setController(async context => {
  const session = context.data.get("session");
  let c = session.get("c") || 1;

  if (context.path === "/") {
    session.set("c", c + 1);
  }

  context.body = `It\'s alive for path '/' ${c} times in this browser!`;
});

s.start();
```

## About Tool

Tool is a series function that help to do sth with controller

As you can see in `Session`

```typescript
const cookie = cookieReader(cookie);
setCookie.append("set-cookie", cookie2String(cookie));
```

### Router

In fen we provide a way to arrange route,
router tool.

This example shows many way to use router

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//server.ts";
import { Router } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//tool/router.ts";

const s = new Server();

s.port = 1882;

s.logger.changeLevel("ALL");

let mergeRouter = new Router("merge");

mergeRouter
  .get(
    "/",
    async context =>
      (context.body = `${context.data.get("router").name} in ${
        context.data.get("router").route
      }`)
  )
  .post(
    "/",
    async context =>
      (context.body = `POST ${context.data.get("router").name} in ${
        context.data.get("router").route
      }`)
  )
  .get(
    "me",
    async context =>
      (context.body = `${context.data.get("router").name} in ${
        context.data.get("router").route
      }`)
  );

let router = new Router();

router
  .get("/:id", async context => {
    context.body = `we have ${JSON.stringify(
      context.data.get("router").params
    )} in ${context.data.get("router").route}`;
  })
  .get("/:id/:name", async context => {
    context.body = `we have ${JSON.stringify(
      context.data.get("router").params
    )} in ${context.data.get("router").route}`;
  })
  .get("/hello/:name", async context => {
    context.body = `hello ${context.data.get("router").params.name} in ${
      context.data.get("router").route
    }`;
  })
  .use({
    "/use": {
      get: async context =>
        (context.body = `use in ${context.data.get("router").route}`)
    }
  })
  .merge("/merge", mergeRouter);
s.setController(router.controller);

s.start();
```

`Router` now support these method:

```
    use(route: IRoute) // a way to add route
    // IRoute just like:
    // {[path]: {[method]: async function controller(cxt)}}
    merge(route: string, router:Router) // merge other router by add prefix route
    get
    post
    head
    put
    delete
    connect
    options
    trace
```

### Logger

In fen we provide a way to log info through logger we provide.
Logger now have 5 level for log to help you develop.
You can access them on `context.logger` .

```
    'ALL':  Display all log,
    'TRACE': trace some detail,
    'DEBUG': log to help you debug,
    'INFO': normal info for you,
    'WARN': simple warn,
    'ERROR': error that won't stop the server,
    'FATAL': once it happened, server won't work,
    'OFF': Disable all log
```

You can change log level by `changeLevel`, logger also can access on `Server` instance

```typescript
logger.changeLevel("ALL");
```

### Static

We provide a tool for static file,
it will generate a controller for server(or router).

```typescript
import { Server } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//server.ts";
import { staticProcess } from "https://github.com/fen-land/deno-fen/raw/master//tool/static.ts";

const s = new Server();

s.port = 1882;
// it will respond file from the path where deno run
s.setController(staticProcess({ root: "" }));

s.start();
```

and here is some of the option you can fit in

```
{
    root: root path of the file,
    maxAge: (s),
    allowHidden: allow access hidden file,
    index: access if no file name provide 'index.html',
    immutable: immutable in cache-control,
    pathRender: (path) => afterpath, if you want do sth. with path
};
```

## Update Log

- v0.7.2 Mar 18, 2019
  - 💡 Update to support deno 0.3.3 std 0.3.2
- v0.7.1 Mar 11, 2019
  - 💡 New path structure for import
  - 💄 Now all process and tool pass data through context.data
  - 🎉 Using deno v0.3.2 now
  - 🎉 Add a bunch of test now
  - ⚠️ don't using v0.7.0, there some issue with this version
- v0.6.0 Mar 7, 2019
  - 💡 New http error handler
  - 💄 Decompose tool from each other, now tool only depend on Server context
- v0.5.3 Mar 5, 2019
  - 💡 New router tool for controller
  - 💄 Add path render in static
  - 🎉 Using deno v0.3.0 now
- v0.5.1 Mar 4, 2019
  - 💡 New static tool for file controller
- v0.5.0 Mar 4, 2019
  - 💡 New Logger for properly info presentation
- v0.4.0 Mar 1, 2019
  - 💡 Body is now auto encode
  - 💡 Add config to server
  - 💄 New content in context
  - 🎉 A bunch of example now is available
- v0.3.0 Feb 28, 2019
  - 💄 Respond now is auto
- v0.2.0 Feb 27, 2019
  - 💡 First Tool And Process
- v0.1.0 Feb 26, 2019
  - 💡 Basic Server
